jupyter.md, before:

---
title: "Jupyter"
---

## Jupyter on PLEIADES
Jupyter is a powerful tool for data science and interactive computing. Whether analyzing data, running simulations, or building models, Jupyter's interactive environment and powerful tools make it easy to get work done. PLEIADES' Jupyter documentation is divided into two sub-pages: *JupyterHub Login* and *Custom JupyterLab servers*.  
The *JupyterHub Login* page explains how to use the JupyterHub Login on PLEIADES to get automated JupyterLab servers batched through SLURM. This option is recommended for those who prefer a quick and easy way to start working with Jupyter on the cluster.  
Alternatively, *Custom JupyterLab servers* describes how to batch JupyterLab servers by yourself, providing full control over the `SBATCH` settings. This option is recommended for those who have specific requirements or want to customize their JupyterLab environment.  


More information is available:
- [JupyterHub Login](jupyter/jupyterHub.md)
- [Custom JupyterLab servers](jupyter/jupyter-nb_on_pleiades.md)
- [Generating custom kernels with IPython](jupyter/jupyter-kernels.md)

Commit message:

Write about Jupyter kernels for Julia and R

jupyter.md, after:

---
title: "Jupyter"
---

## Jupyter on PLEIADES
Jupyter is a powerful tool for data science and interactive computing. Whether analyzing data, running simulations, or building models, Jupyter's interactive environment and powerful tools make it easy to get work done. PLEIADES' Jupyter documentation is divided into two sub-pages: *JupyterHub Login* and *Custom JupyterLab servers*.  
The *JupyterHub Login* page explains how to use the JupyterHub Login on PLEIADES to get automated JupyterLab servers batched through SLURM. This option is recommended for those who prefer a quick and easy way to start working with Jupyter on the cluster.  
Alternatively, *Custom JupyterLab servers* describes how to batch JupyterLab servers by yourself, providing full control over the `SBATCH` settings. This option is recommended for those who have specific requirements or want to customize their JupyterLab environment.  


More information is available:
- [JupyterHub Login](jupyter/jupyterHub.md)
- [Custom JupyterLab servers](jupyter/jupyter-nb_on_pleiades.md)
- [Creating custom kernels with IPython](jupyter/jupyter-kernels.md)
- [Creating kernels for Julia and R](jupyter-kernels-JuliaR.md)
